---
title: 'Extracting Buildings from Historic Maps - Part 1'
date: 2020-11-21
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - historic maps
  - raster
  - vector
  - ArcMap
---
Summary: Extracting buildings from historic maps. 


<h1>Goals</h1>
<b>Goals:</b> To extract building features from historic maps, and to store them as vectors. 

<p><b>Background:</b> This project came about following the exploration of local historic maps to see how footpaths' spatial behaviour change as urbanisation occurs. A basic visualisation of urban features and footpaths would be useful in exploring this relationship. A brief Google search identified there to be no datasets relating to historic records of urban features aside from in historic maps. 
This led to the idea to explore the different methods of extracting features from historic maps. 
An initial exploration of the literature noted two potential paths to achieving this goal; first, using pre-made tools (e.g. using ArcGIS), and secondly, using machine learning techniques (e.g. segmentation and classification).
To provide justification for why using machine learning techniques might be a better approach to this challenge, and to get an idea of the type of output I want, I initially chose to test out the 'using pre-made tools' approach. The rest of this post will discuss the methods, software, and data used, and the strengths and limitations of this approach. 

<h1>Data</h1>
<b>Source:</b> Edina Digimap

<p><b>Product:</b> 1st Edition (1846-1899) County Series 1:10

<p><b>Format:</b> Tiff

<p><h1>Method</h1>
The method used is developed from that in [this YouTube video](www.youtube.com/watch?v=QMTUFfE2VXo&ab_channel=AnujTiwari). 
[text](www.google.com)

<h1>Results</h1>